# Test Service Library: Stimulus Functions

[Open topic with navigation](../../../../CANoeDEFamily.htm#Topics/CAPLFunctions/Test/CAPLfunctionsTSLStimulusOverview.md)

**CAPL Functions** » [Test Service Library](CAPLfunctionsTSLOverview.md) » Stimulus Functions

**Valid for**: CANoe DE • CANoe:lite DE • CANoe4SW DE • CANoe4SW:lite DE

Stimulus Generators are part of the Test Service Library. They allow the user to stimulate signals or environment variables - referred to as data sinks in the following - according to a specific time behavior.

With the exception of `StmCreate_CSV (non-cyclic)` all Stimulus Generators have a cycle time. This cycle time indicates the cycle at which the value of the data sink is updated.

With the exception of [StmCreate_EnvVar](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateEnvVar.md) each Stimulus Generator has a period length T after which the values are repeated for the data sink. The program supports user-defined integers up to 32 bit.

## The following types of Stimulus Generators are available:

- [Stimulus Generator: Toggle Between Two Values](CAPLfunctionsTSLToggleStimulus.md)
  - [StmCreate_Toggle](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateToggleDatabase.md) (limits taken from database)
  - [StmCreate_Toggle](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateToggleUserDefined.md) (limits user-defined)
  - **Short Description**: Create a stimulus generator that toggles between two values.

- [Stimulus Generator: Generate a Ramp](CAPLfunctionsTSLRampStimulus.md)
  - [StmCreate_Ramp](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateRampDatabase.md) (limits taken from database)
  - [StmCreate_Ramp](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateRampUserDefined.md) (limits user-defined)
  - **Short Description**: Create a stimulus generator that creates a ramp.

- [Stimulus Generator: Environment Variable as Data Source](CAPLfunctionsTSLStimulusEV.md)
  - [StmCreate_EnvVar](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateEnvVar.md)
  - **Short Description**: Create the stimulus with environment variables as data source.

- [Stimulus Generator: CSV File as Data Source](CAPLfunctionsTSLStimulusCsvFile.md)
  - [StmCreate_CSV](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateCsvNonCyclical.md) (non-cyclical)
  - [StmCreate_CSV](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmCreateCsvCyclical.md) (cyclical)
  - **Short Description**: Create stimulus generator with CSV file as data source.

- [ASAM XIL API](../../CANoeCANalyzer/Interfaces/ASAMXILAPI/ASAMXILAPI.md)
  - [HILAPICreateSignalGenerator](Functions/CAPLfunctionHILAPICreateSignalGenerator.md)
  - **Short Description**: Creates a Signal Generator from an ASAM HILAPI Signal Generator definition file.
  - [testWaitForHILAPISignalGeneratorLoaded](Functions/CAPLfunctionTestWaitForHILAPISignalGeneratorLoaded.md): Waits until a signal generator is fully loaded and ready to start.

## The Stimulus Generators are created and controlled by the following functions in CAPL:

- **Functions**
  - [ChkConfig_Init](Functions/CAPLfunctionChkConfigInit.md)
    - **Short Description**: The Test Service Library must always be initialized at the beginning.
  - [StmCreate_xxx](CAPLfunctionsTSLFunctionTypes.md)
    - **Short Description**: Creation of Stimulus Generators.
  - [StmControl_Start, StmControl_Stop, StmControl_Reset, StmControl_Destroy](Functions/CAPLfunctionStmControlStartStopResetDestroy.md)
    - **Short Description**: During the measurement the Generators can be started, stopped, reset or destroyed in CAPL programs with the functions.

**Note:**
- Once the Stimulus Generator has been destroyed the stimulus can no longer be used. If necessary a new stimulus must be generated by another means.
- All given signal values are always physical values. `Physical value = raw value * factor + offset`. The values for "factor" and "offset" are defined in the database.

© Vector Informatik GmbH

[Contact/Copyright/License](../../Shared/ContactCopyrightLicense.md) | [Data Privacy Notice](https://www.vector.com/int/en/company/get-info/privacy-policy/)
