# ISO11783 File Server Interaction Layer

(Only available with ISO11783!)

**Valid for**: CANoe DE • CANoe4SW DE

## On This Page:

- [Callback Functions](#Callback)
- [DTC Support](#DiagnosticFunctions)
- [Fault Injection for Messages](#FaultInjection)
- [Fault Injection for Transport Protocols](#FaultInjectionTP)
- [File Server Specific Functions](#FileServerSpecific)
- [Node Control](#Node)
- [Other Functions](#Other)
- [Signal/Message Access](#Signal/M)

## Callback Functions [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_OnAddressClaimConflict](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnAddressClaimConflict.md)**: Is called if an address conflict is detected.
- **[FSIL_OnAddressViolation](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnAddressViolation.md)**: Is called if an address violation is detected.
- **[FSIL_OnCA](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnCA.md)**: Is called from the IL when a Command Address message is received.
- **[FSIL_OnChangedState](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnChangedState.md)**: Is called if the IL has changed its state.
- **[FSIL_OnCurrentDirectoryChanged](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnCurrentDirectoryChanged.md)**: Is called from the FS IL if a client has changed its current directory.
- **[FSIL_OnError](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnError.md)**: Is called if an error has occurred.
- **[FSIL_OnNumberOfOpenFilesChanged](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnNumberOfOpenFilesChanged.md)**: Is called from the FS IL if a client has opened or closed a file or directory.
- **[FSIL_OnRequest](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnRequest.md)**: Is called if a request (0xEA00) is received.
- **[FSIL_OnRxMessage](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnRxMessage.md)**: Is called from the IL if the IL receives the parameter group, namely before the parameter group is processed by the IL.
- **[FSIL_OnTxMessage](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnTxMessage.md)**: Is called if a message was sent successfully.
- **[FSIL_OnTxPrepare](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILOnTxPrepare.md)**: Is called before a parameter group is sent.

## DTC Support [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_ActivateDiagnosticsSupport](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILActivateDiagnosticsSupport.md)**: Activates or deactivates the support of ISO11783 diagnostics by the IL.
- **[FSIL_ActivateDTC](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILActivateDTC.md)**: Activates a diagnostics trouble code (DTC) and add it to the list of active DTCs.
- **[FSIL_ClearAllDTCs](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILClearAllDTCs.md)**: Clears the list of active DTCs as well as the list of previously active DTCs.
- **[FSIL_DeactivateDTC](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDeactivateDTC.md)**: Deactivates a diagnostics trouble code (DTC) and removes it from the list of active DTCs.
- **[FSIL_GetDTCStatus](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILGetDTCStatus.md)**: Returns the current occurrence count of a diagnostics trouble code (DTC).

## Fault Injection for Messages [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_BlockRxMessage](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockRxMessage.md)**: Prevents processing of a received message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_BlockTxMessage](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockTxMessage.md)**: Prevents transmitting of a message generated by the interaction layer.
- **[FSIL_DelayRxMessage](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDelayRxMessage.md)**: Delays processing of a received message by the interaction layer.
- **[FSIL_ManipulateMessage](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILManipulateMessage.md)**: Modifies the content of a message generated and sent by the interaction layer.

## Fault Injection for Transport Protocols [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_BlockTxTpAbort](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockTxTpAbort.md)**: Prevents transmission of (E)TP.Abort message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_BlockTxTpCts](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockTxTpCts.md)**: Prevents transmission of (E)TP.CTS message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_BlockTxTpDpo](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockTxTpDpo.md)**: Prevents transmitting of a ETP.DPO message generated and sent by the interaction layer.
- **[FSIL_BlockTxTpDt](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockTxTpDt.md)**: Prevents transmission of (E)TP.DT message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_BlockTxTpEoma](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILBlockTxTpEoma.md)**: Prevents transmission of (E)TP.EoMA message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_DelayTxTpAbort](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDelayTxTpAbort.md)**: Delays transmission of (E)TP.Abort message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_DelayTxTpCts](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDelayTxTpCts.md)**: Delays transmission of (E)TP.CTS message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_DelayTxTpDpo](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDelayTxTpDpo.md)**: Delays transmitting of a ETP.DPO message generated and sent by the interaction layer.
- **[FSIL_DelayTxTpDt](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDelayTxTpDt.md)**: Delays transmission of (E)TP.DT message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_DelayTxTpEoma](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDelayTxTpEoma.md)**: Delays transmission of (E)TP.EoMA message by the Interaction Layer.
- **[FSIL_FreezeTp](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILFreezeTp.md)**: Freezes the current (E)TP connection immediately.

## File Server Specific Functions [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_ConnectRemovableDevice](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILConnectRemovableDevice.md)**: Connects a virtual removable device with the File Server.
- **[FSIL_DeleteFiles](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDeleteFiles.md)**: Deletes files from the File Server.
- **[FSIL_DisconnectAllRemovableDevices](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDisconnectAllRemovableDevices.md)**: Disconnects all removable devices from the File Server.
- **[FSIL_DisconnectRemovableDevice](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILDisconnectRemovableDevice.md)**: Disconnects a removable device from the File Server.
- **[FSIL_Exists](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILExists.md)**: Checks if a file or directory exists.
- **[FSIL_ImportFiles](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILImportFiles.md)**: Imports files into the File Server.
- **[FSIL_SetBusyMode](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetBusyMode.md)**: Activates or deactivates the busy mode of the File Server.

## Node Control [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_AcceptRxPG](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILAcceptRxPG.md)**: Checks if the received parameter group is addressed to the FS IL.
- **[FSIL_ControlInit](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILControlInit.md)**: Suppress the auto-start function of the IL.
- **[FSIL_ControlStart](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILControlStart.md)**: Activates node to start Address Claiming.
- **[FSIL_ControlStop](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILControlStop.md)**: Deactivates the IL and stops sending cyclic messages.
- **[FSIL_EnableAddressViolationDetection](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILEnableAddressViolationDetection.md)**: Activates detection of address violations by other nodes.
- **[FSIL_EnableNameManagement](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILEnableNameManagement.md)**: Activates the name management of a node.
- **[FSIL_GetAddress](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILGetAddress.md)**: Returns the address that is used by the FS IL.
- **[FSIL_GetState](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILGetState.md)**: Returns the current state of the FS IL.
- **[FSIL_SetNodeProperty](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetNodeProperty.md)**: Changes an internal property of the node.
- **[FSIL_GetDeviceName](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILGetDeviceName.md)**: Gets the NAME as reported on the bus.

## Other Functions [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_GetLastError](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILGetLastError.md)**: Returns the value of the last called FS IL function.
- **[FSIL_GetLastErrorText](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILGetLastErrorText.md)**: Returns the textual description of the value of the last called FS IL function.
- **[FSIL_SetVerbosity](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetVerbosity.md)**: Set verbosity for writing in Write Window.

## Signal/Message Access [▲ back](#Shortcuts)

- **[FSIL_SetMsgEvent](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetMsgEvent.md)**: Sends a message immediately.
- **[FSIL_SetMsgRawData](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetMsgRawData.md)**: Sets the data bytes of the message.
- **[FSIL_SetSignal](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetSignal.md)**: Sets the physical value of a signal.
- **[FSIL_SetSignalRaw](Functions/CAPLfunctionIso11783FSILSetSignalRaw.md)**: Sets the raw value of a signal.

**Links:**

- [IL Error Codes](../../CAPLfunctionsISOj1939ErrorCodes.md)
- [FS IL Functional Properties](CAPLfunctionsISOILFSProperties.md)
- [FS IL Network Properties](CAPLfunctionsISOILFSNetworkProperties.md)

© Vector Informatik GmbH

**Version**: CANoe (Desktop Editions & Test Bench Editions) Version 18 SP3

[Contact/Copyright/License](../../../Shared/ContactCopyrightLicense.md)

[Data Privacy Notice](https://www.vector.com/int/en/company/get-info/privacy-policy/)
