[Open topic with navigation](../../../../../CANoeDEFamily.htm#Topics/CAPLFunctions/LIN/Selectors/CAPLfunctionLINDLCInfo.md)

**CAPL Functions** » **LIN** » **linDlcInfo Selectors**

# linDlcInfo Selectors

[Valid for](../../../Shared/FeatureAvailability.md): CANoe DE • CANoe4SW DE

## Table of Selectors

- **Keyword:** Time
  - **Description:** Time stamp synchronized with the global time base on the computer (CAN hardware or PC system clock). Unit: 10µs
  - **Type:** dword
  - **Access Limitations:** read only

- **Keyword:** Time_ns
  - **Description:** Time stamp synchronized with the global time base on the computer (CAN hardware or PC system clock). Unit: nanoseconds
  - **Type:** int64
  - **Access Limitations:** read only

- **Keyword:** MsgOrigTime
  - **Description:** Time stamp generated by the LIN hardware. This time stamp is unsynchronized with the global time base on the computer and thus still original. It can be used to compare the time of two LIN hardware generated events. Unit: 10µs
  - **Type:** dword
  - **Access Limitations:** read only

- **Keyword:** MsgTimeStampStatus
  - **Description:** Status of MsgOrigTime:
    - **Bit 0 set:** Time stamp is valid
    - **Bit 0 not set:** Time stamp is invalid
    - **Bit 1 set:** Time stamp was generated by software
    - **Bit 1 not set:** Time stamp was generated by hardware
    - **Bit 4:** Has a bus-specific meaning; not currently in use for LIN
  - **Type:** byte
  - **Access Limitations:** read only

- **Keyword:** ID
  - **Description:** LIN Frame identifier (6 bits) of the measured frame. Value range: 0..63
  - **Type:** byte
  - **Access Limitations:**

- **Keyword:** DLC
  - **Description:** Measured number of data bytes (Data Length Code). Value range: 0..8
  - **Type:** byte
  - **Access Limitations:** read only

- **Keyword:** MsgChannel
  - **Description:** Channel through which the event was received. Value range: 1..32
  - **Type:** word
  - **Access Limitations:** read only

© Vector Informatik GmbH

**CANoe (Desktop Editions & Test Bench Editions) Version 18 SP3**

[Contact/Copyright/License](../../../Shared/ContactCopyrightLicense.md)

[Data Privacy Notice](https://www.vector.com/int/en/company/get-info/privacy-policy/)
