[Open topic with navigation](../../../../../CANoeDEFamily.htm#Topics/CAPLFunctions/LIN/EventProcedures/CAPLfunctionOnLINSlaveTimeout.md)

[CAPL Functions](../../CAPLfunctions.md) » [LIN](../CAPLfunctionsLINOverview.md) » on linSlaveTimeout

# on linSlaveTimeout

[Valid for](../../../Shared/FeatureAvailability.md):  CANoe DE • CANoe4SW DE

## Description

This procedure is called for SlaveTimeouts. The timeout of an FSM status can be set with `LINSlFSMSetStTO`.

## Selectors

- **TIME (data type dword)**  
  The time stamp of the timeout with which the global time base was synchronized on the computer (CAN hardware or PC system clock).  
  The time stamp must be used if you want to take into consideration time relations with events from other sources. This time stamp is also generated in the Trace Window.  
  Unit: 10 microseconds.

- **MsgOrigTime (data type dword)**  
  Time stamp generated by the LIN hardware.  
  It will only prove useful in isolated cases to use this time stamp that is unsynchronized and thus still original. The time stamp should only be used to compare the time of two LIN hardware generated events.  
  Unit: 10 microseconds.

- **MsgTimeStampStatus (data type byte)**  
  Status of MsgOrigTime:
  - **Bit 0 set**: Time stamp is valid
  - **Bit 0 not set**: Time stamp is invalid
  - **Bit 1 set**: Time stamp was generated by software
  - **Bit 1 not set**: Time stamp was generated by hardware
  - **Bit 4**: Has a bus-specific meaning; not currently in use for LIN

- **MsgChannel (data type ushort)**  
  The channel through which the timeout was received.

- **lin_FsmID (data type byte)**  
  The [Identifier](../../../CANoeCANalyzer/LIN/LINValueRanges.md) of the FSM that initiated the timeout.

- **lin_FsmState (data type byte)**  
  The [status](../../../CANoeCANalyzer/LIN/LINValueRanges.md) of the FSM in which the timeout occurred.

- **lin_FollowStateID (data type byte)**  
  The [status](../../../CANoeCANalyzer/LIN/LINValueRanges.md) to which the FSM switched after the timeout.  
  **Write-protected!**

## Example

—

CANoe (Desktop Editions & Test Bench Editions) Version 18 SP3

[Contact/Copyright/License](../../../Shared/ContactCopyrightLicense.md)

[Data Privacy Notice](https://www.vector.com/int/en/company/get-info/privacy-policy/)
